	     [[[:==---  G A L A C T O P E D I A  ---==:]]]
			    (pocket edition)


What follows is a bible of sorts regarding factoids about
SpaceBase-DF9's universe and game backstory.

This is not intended to be comprehensive, but to list details that
may/should crop up multiple places in the game to make the game story
more cohesive.  In particular we don't need to list individual planets,
people, or events unless they are especially central to the overall game
plot or multiple storylines.


!!! WARNING: MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD !!!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

administrator artilect: The title of the colonist leading construction
and operation of the base outpost being built in the game.  The
Administrator does not actually live on the space station though.

autoselfie cam: Digital camera for taking vids and vidstills that can
automatically upload to Spaceface.

birdshark: Nickname for one of the in-game races.

blackmatter: A private production/services contractor, whose armaments
are still used to this day.  They were the primary builder of
the pre-Collapse battleships (whose megaturret armor pods were later
repurposed into pub bars.)

cat: Nickname for one of the in-game races, that group in Clans.  Also a
species of Terran feline that often adopts one or more humans as
servants.

chicken: Nickname for one of the in-game races.  They view Terran
poultry to have an odd resemblance to themselves, and feel that Terran
consumption of chicken to be rather off-putting.

citizen: A member of the galactic empire led by the Interim Sol-3
Government.

collapse, galactic: A civilization-wide dark age that occurred (3000
years?) in the past.  The time prior to this event is referred to as
Pre-Collapse.  One of the key factors precipitating this calamity was a
sudden, severe drop in the stock price of the Blackmatter conglomerate.
Many, many songs were written about the Collapse.

crate, hover: Intermodal-compatible boxes that are self-lifting using
anti-gravity mechanisms.

cryo-sleep: A deep hibernation state.  Base Seed Pods come equipped with
cryo-sleep compartments holding citizens for founding a base colony.

dark matter:  An extremely advanced technology used for power reactors,
knowledge of which is rumored to have come via time travellers from the
future.

datacubes:  A 3-dimensional storage matrix able to contain rich
knowledge about specific topics.

diaspora fleet IX: A fleet of space vessels sent by the Interim Sol-3
Government with the mission of resettling the four quadrants of the
Milky Way galaxy with colonists.  The fleet is organized under the
Diaspora Fleet Command and comprises a number of departments and
divisions including Diaspora Emergency Medical Brigade (DEMB) and
Diaspora Sociobiological Services (DSS).

elders [race]: Various alien races that existed before Terran
civilization became space-faring.  Known to have tampered with the
ancient Earthlings such as leaving monuments.

galactopedia: The sum total of galactic knowledge.

genetic enhancement: Engineered retroviruses were used to create
supersoldiers; this technology has now been lost.

grand reunification: A story of the old days.

grishnak: A tough reptillian alien mercenary-turned-pirate-lord.  He
spreads terror to dominate settlements and build a cult of personality.
He teaches his followers that personal power is all that matters in the
world, and death or victory in suicidal firefights is the best way to
prove ones' power.  To Grishnak, the liver is the source of this power,
and he collects and burns these organs from victims, inhaling the fleshy
smoke to absorb their potency.  Grishnak considers anyone who enters his
domain to be either a tool to put to use or a resource to be exploited,
and relishes figuring out which - often in the most sadistic way his
lizard brain can imagine.  Lately he has made a speciality out of
targeting recently founded Diaspora settlements.  He lets them get a
foothold then takes ownership of them - by force if necessary.

grixyls: A rag-tag gang of ruffians under the charismatic leadership of
General Grishnak.  These followers are motivated by feeling displaced by
the Diaspora fleet.  They feel the colonists are invading territories
that don't belong to them and assuming control without consulting with
the locals.  These resentments are easily fanned into flames by the
charismatic Grishnak (who hypocritically himself is an outsider striving
to usurp control).

hover-sandals: Footware with anti-gravity circuits to enable quieter,
effortless movement.

human [race]: Terran species, originated from the planet Earth.

imperial dollars, old: Old Imperial Dollar pricing is still in use for
some products.  An antique Fridge unit such as the ones installed in
space stations, run $4400 Old Imperial Dollars.

jelly [race]: One of the in-game races, who have a non-paternal system
of governance.

jojoban [race]: The first alien species contacted by the Terrans.  The
Jojobans enjoyed the Terran sport of Baseball.  The plural of Jojoban is
Jojaban.

killbot: military robots programmed to kill

malbolge [language]: Obscure programming language used over 939 years
ago for equipment firmware 

mega-corporations: Various interstellar conglomerations conduct business
across the galaxy.  Referenced corps include: Smugglers, Incorporated
(who strictly abide by Interstellar law); Jupiter Mining Corporation;
Dark Side of the Moon Mining Group; ACME Supply Pods, Inc.;
Gattarax-Quiblo Amalgamated Inc. (makers of gas processing equipment);
ConFoodCo Corp. (ancient food appliance company existing since
pre-Collapse times); GetHugeCo (distributors of sport fitness products);
UL-INC PhunCorp (maker of space doors and kids toys); Novar Systems
(maker of fusion reactor equipment); Blackmatter (a pre-Collapse
military contractor, see 'blackmatter'; Syndi-co (A multi-smuggler
syndicate that develops the "evil sounding" weapons and supplies often
used by raiders); Greiling Outfitters (a sustainability minded producer
of colonist equipment operated as a robotic factory mega-cooperative).

metacrylic:  A cost-effective metal-like material used for making
cheap bolts and other fasteners.

nanofactories / nanomachinery: A technology used for, among other
things, maintaining space station equipment, atmospheric customization,
and turning planetary surfaces into "grey goo".

phazer: Firearm technology able to kill or damage organic and inorganic
matter.

planetary destruction: Entire planets have been blown up to prevent
spread of certain diseases.

pre-collapse: Before the galactic collapse.

quaaai [race]: Buried their dead in urns.  Known for gifting the
Diaspora Fleet with the RevivaBeds now used ubiquitously throughout the
recolonized portions of the galaxy.

shamon [race]: One of the in-game races, that has been hunted across the
galaxy for centuries.  Many find Terran sexual reproduction to be
disgusting and inconvenient.

singularity conductor inductor: A device to harness the power of a black
hole.

sleepdep: A stimulent drug applied via a patch that allows one to skip a
night's sleep.

spacedate: The Intergalactic Standard Time Measurement.  Utilizes
seconds, minutes, days, and years.  While 'month' is no longer a
standard time measurement, 'Old Terran Months' are sometimes used for
expressing imprecise time periods; one Old Terran Month can measure
anywhere from 28 to 31 days depending on convenience.  'Old Terran
Hours' are also a common non-standard time measurement, but tend to be
more reliably measured as exactly 60 minutes.

spaceface: A post-Collapse social media platform which includes customer
reviews.

SQ: A measurement of area corresponding to 1 square tile in the game.  A
rug is 2SQ.

stunner: Beam weapon able to incapacitate thinking organic beings.

supraspace: Some spaceships travel through supraspace, exiting it into
normal space to interact with the space station.  Supraspace is also
used for telecommunications on various modulated frequency bands.

terran [race]: From Earth in the Sol system.  Believed to have loved the number
12.  Old Terra is now covered in wastelands; its oceans no longer
shimmer blue due to ancient "mistakes".

thalrassh [race]: These aliens find cats to be weird.

tobian [race]: One of the in-game races.  Many find Terran sexual
reproduction to be disgusting and inconvenient.

triskalian [race]: Intelligent alien species that conducts trade
and enslavement.

vids: Video programs from pre-collapse times.

vidstills: Static images, typically digital.  Used to be called Photos.

vorpulon slug [race]: Non-intelligent alien creature used in the
manufacture of Vorpulon Slug Sauce, which is able to regenerate into
more slugs if left in the dark for 96+ Old Terran Hours.
